

REACH Award
Research Project Proposal that clearly identifies a) the title of the research project, b) a 200 word summary of the study, c) the research problem or issue, d) a brief summary of literature to situate the study, e) the methods and analyses to be used in the study, f) a brief timeline (between 4-12 months), and g) the knowledge mobilization plans to share the results of the study. (1000 words max - including the 200 word summary): 

Research program Project Ttitle: 
Cloud computing in school: Teachers’ feeling of comfort integrating Google Suite fFor Education in school contexts.

Research Project Summary, Methods & Analyses: Research Project Proposal that clearly identifies a) the title of the research project, b) a 200 word summary of the study, c) the research problem or issue, d) a brief summary of literature to situate the study, e) the methods and analyses to be used in the study, f) a brief timeline (between 4-12 months), and g) the knowledge mobilization plans to share the results of the study. (1000 words max - including the 200 word summary): 

This quantitative research study is designed to expand knowledge regarding the relationship between secondary public-school teachers’ general technology integration levels and feelings of comfort using Google Suite for Education (GSFE or GSuite) in Nanaimo-Ladysmith public schools (SD68) in British Columbia, Canada. This study will use an anonymous paper-based survey instrument combining two subscales for a total of 56 items to examine teachers’ general levels of technology integration, examine the teachers’ levels of comfort and those same characteristics in regard to teachers’ use of GSuite, in particular. The survey instrument is constructed from items used from the The Teacher Technology Integration Survey, or TTIS (Vannatta & Banister, 2009) and the Techsoup’s 2012 Global Cloud Computing Survey (Lim, Grönlund & Andersson, 2015). The survey will be distributed to approximately 7 GSuite-using high schools in the Nanaimo-Ladysmith school district with a maximum of 105 potential respondents (with a maximum of 15 respondents per school). The study will use Pearson’s correlation coefficient to analyze potential relationships between the subscales by identifying bivariate or linear correlations between the subscales. The strength of possible relationships will be used to suggest areas for future research and improvement for current integration practices and teachers’ feeling of comfort when using GSuite services for teaching and learning process. This research might also have wider implications for the integration of cloud computing services in education.


Research Problem or Issue & Brief Summary of the Literature:
Education is increasingly more reliant on education technology (edtech) and the Internet and these demand classroom use of technologies (Magnussen, 2008). Thomas (2011) mentioned cloud computing (described as information technology services that are available to users anytime and anywhere with internet access) as a significant type of edtech. Google Docs, the first application in GSuite generally available in 2006 (Arrington, 2006), is a word processing application that allows students and teachers to view, work, and edit the same document simultaneously in real time—which powerfully enhances collaboration in learning and teaching (Spaeth & Black, 2012). Google Apps for Education, which is now called Google Suite for Education (GSuite or GSFE), is a cost-free suite of cloud-applications containing software that addresses various needs of teachers and students in a seamless integrated system including: Google Classroom; Google Drive; Gmail; Google Docs; Google Sheets; Google Presentation; Google Calendar, etc. There has been an increasing uptake in GSuite as neoliberal economies in education across the US and Canada focus schools’ attention on “free” tools (Hengstler, 2017).
Focusing on integrating cloud computing technology in education, Lim, Gronlund, and Andersson (2014) investigated the beliefs and perceptions of Swedish school leaders toward cloud computing. The results suggest that principals of primary and high schools in Sweden believe the main benefit of cloud computing in education is its ability to allow the teaching and learning process to occur anywhere as long as the learning materials, data and software can be shared and accessed via the Internet. The biggest concerns for principals regarding the use of cloud computing in Swedish schools were related to security and privacy (Lim et al., 2014). The results also suggested a lack of shared views of beliefs among the school leaders and other stakeholders challenges the adoption of cloud computing in schools. Lim et al.’s (2014) study provides a firsthand information that can be related to further discussion and research on beliefs and perceptions of teachers, who have direct involvement in applying technology to evolve teaching practices in classes, and who are actually on the “front line of technology leadership” (Frerris & Roberts, 1993, p. 53).
In another study, Ng and Ho (2012) looked to discover school motivations and feelings of comfort regarding edtech reforms by examining the distributed model of distributed leadership that applied in Singapore’s government schools. The data was collected through observation and interviews of the school leaders and teachers at Greenville Elementary. Ng and Ho’s (2012) study revealed that, among a multi-level model of distributed leadership, teachers with technology expertise were actually the ones who could most impact changes in using technology in learning and teaching practices. The results argued that the school’s feeling of comfort with edtech reforms was increased through a mixture of conventional workshops, on-the-job training, just-in-time “training”, and professional feedback that were led by teachers with edtech expertise in conjunction with support from senior managers (Ng & Ho, 2012).
Teachers do best when they possess confidence, understanding, and skills that come from adequate training and development to effectively access technology tools in school (Brand, 1997). General expectations to use technology combined with inadequate preparation may lead to teachers to experience negative feelings of comfort related to technology integration in daily instruction (Herro, 2015). In a study aimed at exploring why some educators embrace the use of digital game-play (DGP) in the classroom, Stieler-Hunt and Jones (2015) used in-depth, semi-structured interviews. The study identified a process of becoming a believer, which confirmed the positive attitude of the educators toward using DGP in classrooms. Stieler-Hunt and Jones (2015) recommended that the attitude of the teachers should be emphasized and developed as a professional competency prior to addressing the practicalities of edtech integration.
While the above referenced studies address edtech integration in general, there is a paucity of research specifically addressing the integration of GSuite especially in regard to Canadian schools. In 2015, Google reported that GSuite (called GAFE at that time) was used by more than 60 million students, teachers, and administrators around the world (Mohr, 2015). However, there is little research on the use of GSuite in Canadian schools. Nanaimo-Ladysmith School District (SD68) is one of many school districts across British Columbia that provide kindergarten to grade 12 (K12) staff and students GSuite accounts to enhance the teaching and learning practice. Recent comments made by district administrators from around the province at the BC Educational Resource Acquisition Consortium workshop, “Due Diligence in the K-12 Education Context” (October 24, 2018; River Rock Casino, Vancouver, BC) indicate increasing pressure on BC public districts to adopt GSuite (J. Hengstler, personal communication, October 29, 2018). The findings from the present study can expand the knowledge about factors affecting teachers’ integration of GSuite in school settings and may have implications for adoption of other cloud-computing and edtech tools.
Edtech should be an innovation that helps students and teachers. The year 2018 has witnessed a strong concern of parents toward the rising use of GSuite in classrooms across Canada (Desson, 2018; Malkin, 2018; Bresnahan, 2018). As the controversy intensifies over GSuite use in regard to privacy and security, prompt and reliable research activities on the integration of GSuite as one of cloud computing services in education need to be done to generate more knowledge for educational stakeholders. The present research will contribute firsthand findings from self-reported surveys of teachers, who engage directly with GSuite in teaching and learning activities.  


A Brief Timeline:
15 Oct – 16 Nov 2018: Get approval from VIU REB and School District Superintendent/designate.
19 – 30 Nov 2018: Deliver recruitment materials and survey packages to schools.
3 – 21 Dec 2018: Wait for return of survey via mail; possible email reminder for survey completions.
7 - 28 Jan 2019: Transcribe data into Excel and writing up data finding analysis.
29 Jan – 12 Feb 2019: Write up findings and recommendations; application to spring conferences.
12 - 26 Feb 2019: Complete the thesis paper, versioning for conference papers and/or potential articles for publication.

Knowledge Mobilization:
The research findings will be used to author the principle investigator’s M.Ed. thesis in completion of her Master of Arts in Educational Leadership. As such the research may be posted on VIUSpace and the researcher’s own website. Moreover, the research may also be used in the creation of articles for publication and presentation at conferences such as the VIU Masters of Education Research Conference and Canadian Society for the Study of Education (CSSE) conference as call for proposals permit. 

References
Hengstler, J. (2017) Improving educational practice: FIPPA compliance & technology in BC public schools. Unpublished manuscript, Joint Ph.D. in Joint Educational Studies (Leadership), Brock University, Windsor University & Lakehead University, ON, Canada.
